---
layout: post
title:  "Another Tech Bubble?"
date:   2014-07-01 00:00:00
categories: cultural
comments: true
---

Some believe that the tech industry has again become over-inflated. But today's circumatances are not the same as those of 2000, the year of the Dot Com bubble burst.

Fourteen years after the Dot Com Bubble Burst of 2000, it is a hot topic of debate whether another bubble has emerged. An economic bubble is characterized by [trade in high volumes at prices that are considerably at variance with intrinsic values.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economic_bubble) What is left to be determined is whether the current influx of capital into the tech industry is justified. The answer to this question is up for debate.

Many are alarmed by the huge sums of money being paid for some of today's startups. The NASDAQ has recently crept up its closest to the year 2000 peak since the market crash. Interest rates are low, and investors have extra incentive to spend their money now.
Housing prices in Silicon Valley have risen tremendously quickly, to a level that is arguably inflated.

On the other hand there is evidence that points to today's tech market being in much better shape than that in 2000. Today's technology sector is much more diversified and well developed than that of 2000. It is well established that technology has played an increasingly significant role in our world in recent years, and the technologies under development hold more promise than those of 2000, some say. Compared to back then, a greater percentage of the companies going public are profitable. And it seems investors may be more cautious this time around.

Ultimately, we can only identify a bubble with certainty after it bursts. The bittersweet fact about today's tech market is that it is much more isolated from the rest of the market than it was in 2000. On one hand, if it crashes, the effects will be far less wide reaching. However, if the success continues, more and more of the nation's money will pour into a small pool for only a select few to enjoy.
 